Now's the time.
The time to build.
Not everything that's built endures.
Not everything that's built remains.
Some things fall under pressure.
Some things fade with time.
Will what we build now endure?
Will what we build speak through the next generation.
We must be diligent, determined, and dedicated.
After all, his church must be built to last.
But I'm excited that you're here today.
The heat is on, and that's not just a song from the 80s.
Come on.
I must quote 80s songs a lot, because I had somebody the other day literally send me an 80s song and said, hey, this will be a really good illustration for a sermon since you use 80s songs all the time.
Hey, but 80s was the greatest time in America, right?
Come on, that's up by shaking her head.
Aw, come on now.
We'll pray for you, it'll be okay.
One person just booed that, but I'll tell you what, 80s were great, had an afro in the 80s, had parachute pants, come on, any parachute pants fans?
Come on, I was cool.
I had a white shirt with big old black polka dots.
Man, I was happening.
I actually saw a picture of myself as my mom.
We were going through her stuff several months ago, and going through some pictures, and there was a picture of me with these.
Do you remember jams?
I had a pair of jams that were like multi-color, and I had this really cool little hat, and you know, my son goes, was that a costume?
And I said, I was cool.
The 80s called and they were like, man, you are hip.
You are happening.
Hey, I don't know why I'm telling you all that.
That's a confessional moment.
I feel much better now.
But we can go on with the morning.
I'm honored that you were here today.
My name is Pastor Chris.
You know all about me in the 80s.
So we are best friends now.
Thanks for being here.
If you're a guest or checking things out, you're trying to figure out where you belong.
Maybe you're looking for a church home.
Let me just reiterate what the ladies said a while ago.
Welcome home.
We are honored.
that you were here.
I would encourage you, get plugged in, get to know those around, introduce yourself.
I know sometimes that's awkward and it's difficult, but the only way that we can truly walk together is if we make ourselves available to walk together.
So let's do that as a church body.
So again, thanks so much.
For being here, those of you that are watching online, we love you as well.
Love to see your face.
We're so honored that you're choosing to pause the chaos of social media just to allow God to speak into your life this morning.
All right, well, we are in part three of a short four week series, five week actually series, that we're calling built to last.
We're taking some time and we're looking at what does it mean to not just build something for the kingdom of God, not just build what God has laid before us, but what does it mean to build it to last?
How have you know there's a difference between the two?
Okay, let me just share with you.
There's a difference between the two.
Yeah, there really, really is.
We were doing some remodel several years ago, and as we were going through one of the rooms, I've told you about one where all the nails were in the platform, but there was another room where there was a sound booth, and we discovered that the sound booth was held to the wall.
You ready for this?
By scotch tape.
We discovered it was not built to last.
Come on, God is calling us not to have a scotch tape relationship with him.
God's calling us to move beyond just
maintaining in the moment and that'll do mentality, God's calling us to a place of building something that will last, building what He's laid upon our heart that will far surpass us, that will move into the next generation.
I love the part of the bumper video where the little one speaks up and that's Evan by the way.
And I love when she says, will we understand, will we believe, will we build something that lasts for the next
generation, and then there's a picture of the young lady kneeling simply worshiping.
Guys, that's why we gather here.
That's why we do what we do here so that we can build into and speak into the next generation.
Now, it's really easy, though, for us to sit back and go, no, no, no, no.
This is all about us.
What's in it for my generation?
And yeah, I agree.
We've got to build for the current generation.
But if that's all we do, then we're failing to fulfill the call of God.
The great commission, we're gonna read it in just a few moments, tells us to go into all the world and share the good news of Christ with everyone everywhere.
I don't think that stops it right here.
But for too many years, we as a church have been guilty of satisfying.
are foreign no more.
We've been satisfied with, is the music the way I like it, is the temperature the way I like it, is the room laid out the way I like it, is anybody sitting in my seat?
We had a gentleman a couple weeks ago, second service,
sat right over here, which is odd, because normally he sits right over here.
But for the last three or four weeks, there hasn't been a spot where he sits over here.
So the second week he sat back there, and then he sat over there, and then a couple weeks ago he was right over here.
And I stopped and I said, man, you're getting to start getting here earlier.
He goes, the great thing is, all these seats sit the same.
And I was like, that's fantastic, because how many times have we seen, oh, not in this church?
But we've seen people walk by and their seats taken.
I know I'm a creature of habit.
I go to conferences, I go to meetings, and I love to sit third row, right side, right off the center.
That's where I like to sit.
That's where I can see the best.
That's kind of my focal point.
If I'm too much closer, my wife doesn't like to be that close.
If I'm too much further back, ADHD kicks in.
Come on and I watch everything going by and I miss what's happening.
So third row is pretty, that's prime real estate and nobody's sitting there this morning.
That's crazy.
You guys are missing out.
Somebody needs to sit right there.
Ron, you guys need to move up one row.
That's the seat.
I know your wife wouldn't do it, but that's the best seat in the house right there.
And I was at a conference a couple of months ago and I walked in and I got there early.
I got there like 30 minutes early because I wanted my seat.
And can I just tell you somebody got there 35 minutes earlier and sat in my seat?
I was like, bro, that's my seat.
We all love our spot.
We love going to the same seat.
We love parking in the same parking spot.
We're creatures of habit.
We like things our way.
We want things just the way we like them.
But what if I was to tell you that God's calling us to something greater
than our personal preference.
Some of you are like, I'm telling you, this is not about us.
This is about the 20,000 people in Pettis County that claim no connection with God whatsoever.
They're deemed as the unreached.
I don't know when we've got kind of politically correct and no longer call them unsaved or unchurched.
They're now called the unreached.
They claim no connection with God.
And in fact, if they were to die today, they would split the gates of hell wide open.
Can I just tell you that we're gathered here today to prepare ourselves, to get ourselves ready, to begin to build that solid foundation so that when we walk outside of these walls, we're ready.
for the mission field.
This is not why Jesus came.
Did you know that there are meetings all over town all week long where you can just kind of go and be a spectator?
It's true.
There are civic clubs all over town that are doing fantastic things, but there's no spiritual substance.
There's no eternal change.
And I'm not speaking against those organizations, they're fantastic.
But that's not the purpose of the church.
We have been called, not just me as the pastor, but we have been called to build something to last.
Something that will far outlast us.
There are people in my life that even when I was a young child, invested in me.
There are people that I can look back to today and I could say, I am who I am today because of them.
This individual.
introduced me to ministry.
This individual set the motion of what it meant to be a follower of Christ.
This individual encouraged me in the process.
This person helped me to become the leader that I am.
If it was not for them investing in something that would last building a foundation in my life, can I just tell you, I wouldn't be here today.
But sometimes we
We see ourselves and we think, I don't know what impact I can make.
I don't really make a difference.
Can I just say that some of these people in my life that's spoken to me, the rest of the church or even the world probably would not have deemed them a leader.
But they took the time because they realized that our relationship with God was more than a scotch tape relationship.
that if we were going to build something that will last, then it's going to take intentionality, it's gonna take hard work, it's gonna take dedication, it's gonna take patience.
Did you know that working with the next generation takes patience?
Come on, somebody.
Man, don't look at the young people in the room.
Man, they think completely different than us, don't they?
Their whole mindset is completely different than us, but that's okay.
Because I'd venture to say that when we were young adults, our generation, the older generation, they would have said, well, those young people today.
They like to take that telephone and go halfway across the house and stretch that cord all out and come back all winding up and craziness, right?
They're not satisfied with three stations on the television.
They don't want to get up and turn the channel themselves.
Come on, some of the young people in the house are going, you used to have to do that.
We did.
I was the remote control in my house.
I was the one that got that would be like, turn it to channel.
Let's see, we had three.
9 and 13, I think, maybe 4, 9 and 13.
Turn to the channel 9, we won't watch a PBS.
You know, so I was the remote control.
Hey, I haven't gotten into my notes at all yet.
Let me jump right in to this morning.
We are in a series that we're calling built to last.
And here's what I know.
It's important that we understand that the building process includes not only a physical building,
which we're going to do beginning of April, Lord willing, we're gonna break ground right out in this area.
We're gonna put a big old shovel in the ground.
We're gonna dig a hole.
We're gonna have a dedication for that.
We're gonna celebrate that moment, but building his church, that's our theme for the year, building his church is way more than building a grand building for the world to see.
Come on, I walked across the parking lot, the leadership parks across the street, and as I was walking across the parking lot, I was just envisioning a year and a half or so down the road when God blesses us with an incredible venue to reach the 20,000 people.
But what I come to understand is building His church
When Jesus tells us and calls us to build his church, he's not just saying, hey, physically go out and lay a foundation, go out and do the plumbing, do some electrical work, put up some walls, put a roof over the top, insulate it so everybody's nice and toasty.
Make sure there's good lighting and good sound.
He's not talking about that, but what we need to understand is building his church includes what happens inside these walls.
This is the only way that we can radically impact our community for the cause of Christ.
Did you know a physical building will not radically impact eternity?
At least by itself, I've seen some incredible buildings over the years.
I remember as a teenager, actually a college student, I sat in front of the Lincoln Memorial.
What an incredible monument.
sat in front of that thing.
And at that moment in time, I wasn't super emotionally older.
I get the more emotional I get.
I don't understand this.
Somebody needs to explain it to me.
But I remember as a young adult sitting in front of the Lincoln Memorial and just weeping.
But I also realized something.
Yeah, that was a weeping moment, but it didn't change eternity.
What happens inside these walls as we build his church, and that's you,
The Bible says, we are the temple of the Holy Spirit, right?
So we are His church.
I'm His church.
You're His church.
I can go all the way around the room.
Every one of us, we are His church together collectively.
We build something that's going to last.
The question is, are we willing to do the hard work?
If you've ever watched a building begin to go up,
You'll know something interesting happens.
You'll know something's happening, and at first it's not gonna be very impressive.
There's a lot of work that happens below the surface.
There's the footing, the sewer, the water lines, the piping, the list goes on and on.
But I've never seen anybody go by a construction site and go, wow, look at that foundation.
I mean, look at those pipes coming out of the ground.
That's impressive.
Now, there might be one of you in the house today.
You're like, man, I just love a good foundation.
That just really gets me excited.
Now, I've never seen anybody that gets really overwhelmed by the foundation, but without the foundation, nothing else stands.
Let me say that again, without the foundation, nothing else stands.
We've taken the last couple of weeks, we've looked at the plans, we've laid the foundation out today.
I'm gonna look at the structure, why?
Because a church that is built to last is more than just steel beams and drywall.
It's built on people that are serious about their pursuit with Jesus Christ.
Let's take a look at our text today.
It's found in 1 Peter, chapter two.
Beginning verse four, he says this, you are coming to Christ who is the living cornerstone.
Come on.
He's the living cornerstone of God's temple.
We're gonna talk more about that than I have throughout this series already.
He was rejected by people, but he was chosen by God for great honor.
And you are living stones that God is building into his spiritual temple.
Come on, did you see that?
You, come on, look at your neighbor say that, includes you.
Put in the chat today, that includes me.
You.
are living stones that God is building into his spiritual temple.
Come on, you may not have arrived yet.
We're a work in progress.
Come on, sometimes we need a little bit of
honing in, we need a little bit of chipping away, we need a little bit of guidance, we need a level, we need things to be plumbed, we need to make sure that everything is right in place, we're not quite there, but God is building us into something that will last.
What's more, you are His holy priest.
Through the meditation of Jesus Christ, you offer spiritual sacrifices that please God, as the scriptures say,
I am placing a cornerstone in Jerusalem chosen for great honor.
And anyone who trusts in him will never be disgraced.
Yes, you who trust him recognize the honor God has given him.
But for those who rejected him, the stone that the builders rejected has now become the cornerstone.
And he is the stone that makes people stumble, the rock that makes them fall.
They stumble because they do not obey God's word.
And so they meet the fate that was planned for them.
But you are not like that.
You were a chosen people.
Come on, I want you to understand this today.
God has called you out.
The Bible says that even while you were yet in your mama's belly, he knew you by name.
You are a chosen people.
You are a royal priest and a holy nation.
God's very own possession.
As a result, you can show others the goodness of God, for he called you out of darkness and into his wonderful light.
Once you had no identity as people, now you are God's people.
Come on, that's good news right there, amen?
You had no idea you were a nobody before, but yet God has made you a somebody.
Once you received no mercy, now you have received God's
Mercy.
Here's a statement I want you to grab a hold of that we're going to build upon today.
Jesus is the living stone.
And because He is the living stone, we are living stones.
And we've been called to build His church.
Take a look at this this morning as we look at four truths to remember.
Are you ready for them today?
Come on, are you ready for them today?
Truth number one is this, everything rises or falls on the cornerstone.
If the cornerstone isn't put in proper position, the rest of the build will not work.
Again, I've talked about some of these things, but why am I repeating it?
Well, Sesame Street repeats itself, right?
Why does Sesame Street repeat itself?
Because our forgetters better?
Come on, sometimes we forget
We try to build things on ourselves, not you all.
I mean, none of you would ever lean upon your own understanding.
None of you would ever try to do things by yourself.
None of you would ever buck up and hold your shoulders back high and try to do it all alone.
Not you all, but some people do.
And that's why the Bible says that we can't lean upon our own understanding.
but in all our ways we acknowledge Him.
And what happens as we begin to acknowledge Him, He makes that path that once did this, He begins to make that path straight, kind of like driving through Kansas.
Or Oklahoma, come on.
There's a vast difference between the roads in Honduras and the roads in Oklahoma.
If you've ever been to Honduras,
Man, I'm just telling you, their roads literally do this and there's potholes that would hide my car.
So they're like this deep.
But God desires to take our lives as we offer them to Him, as we lean upon Him, as we trust in Him.
And He begins to make that path before us straight.
First Peter chapter two, verse four.
Come to Jesus Christ.
He is the living stone people have rejected, but which God has chosen and highly honored.
We must remember that Jesus is not just a stone to pick or choose.
Someone tried to convince you that, hey, all religions lead the same direction.
Choose your own adventure.
Can I just tell you that he is the way, the truth, and the life that no one comes to the Father except through him?
This whole idea of, well, I can mix and match.
I can kind of mesh a little bit of this and mesh a little bit of that.
I can kind of pick out what I like out of here and pick out what I like of there.
Or I can add things to this that crafted to make it sound pleasing to me.
That doesn't work.
Come on.
We must lean upon and rely upon all
that God has set before us.
Everything rises or falls on the cornerstone.
Jesus is the living stone that the church corporately and the church privately is built upon.
We must never become guilty of picking and choosing random things here and there and trying to build something that will last.
The problem is every single time it will fall apart.
When you build upon yourself, guess what?
You're gonna have a weak link every once in a while.
I don't know about you, but there's moments in time, and I'm like, what was I thinking?
Or we try building on somebody else, or we build on some possession, or we build upon some information that we think that we have, and the problem is it's not God, and when it's not God, it's not gonna work.
Matthew 6, 18 says this.
Jesus is speaking, he says, now I say to you that you are Peter, we talked about this week one, which means rock, and upon this rock I will build my church and all the powers of hell will not conquer it.
Let me remind you what I shared week one, the original language is more in depth than the English language, we see rock and rock in the English language, but as we dig in, first off, Jesus calls Simon, he calls Peter Petros,
This word literally means a stone or a little rock, a little rock that you can pick up in your hand or perhaps stick in your pocket.
Simon's not the rock that we build upon, but he goes on to say, and upon this rock, Petra, which means a massive rock, I will build my church, Jesus,
is the foundation that we are building upon.
Why is this important for us to grasp and get a hold of?
Because we are not the rock.
We are a stone.
We're a small pebble.
We're kind of like a parking lot where there's a lot of gravel and maybe different sizes of gravel, but it's all gravel and it's all together.
And altogether it forms the parking lot, it forms the church.
But the foundation is Jesus Christ.
If we just wanted to build an organization, then we could build upon talent.
We could build upon incredible singers and musicians.
We could have solid programs.
We could even have a decent message.
But if we want to build his church,
If we wanna build something that will last, if we wanna build something that will impact the next generation, then we cannot do it without him.
Amen?
We can't build it upon ourselves.
I've said it before.
We've got a lot of very talented people in this church, but that's not what we're building upon.
We're building upon the foundation of Jesus Christ.
Why?
Well, there's a couple of things that I wanna look at.
Number one, Hebrews chapter one verse three.
It says, Jesus sustains everything by his mighty power of his command.
Then in Colossians one 17, it says, Jesus existed before anything else and holds all creation together.
We've talked about this before, but Jesus is a foundation.
And if we deviate from Him, the church will not last.
And the second thing that I see is if the cornerstone is right, the structure stands, if the cornerstone is off misplaced or removed or even ignored, then everything else will be compromised.
We must build people, build relationships, strengthen our walk with Jesus,
because he's the foundation.
2026 must be a year of strengthening the base and reinforcing the vision that God's laid upon this church to love, reach, and empower.
Why is that important?
Because if we do not have vision, the Bible says we will stumble all over ourselves or even perish.
Church, it's vital that we understand the mission that God has said before.
It's vital that we have a clear path of where God is leading us.
Here's what I know.
God will not give us more until we can handle more.
Come on.
And I'm not just talking about the leadership team.
I'm talking about us.
until we've prepared ourselves, until we've offered ourselves, until we ready ourselves.
If we don't personally, individually and as a church, develop and strengthen in all areas, then the church will not grow.
It will not make an impact on the surrounding region for the cause of Christ.
Yes, we must spend time in the Word.
Yes, we must strengthen one another.
We must make ourselves available to grow and even step out when it's uncomfortable and God will use us.
He will do all things through us if we will simply make ourselves available.
What did Jesus say?
Jesus said, you will accomplish even greater things than I.
That's hard to wrap yourself around, right?
But as we make ourselves available for Him, God begins to flow through us, through the Holy Spirit's, impacting and strengthening the future generation.
So it's our action point for this one.
Action point number one is this, set Christ as your cornerstone.
Set Christ as your cornerstone.
If you have not yet done that,
I want to encourage you today, make Jesus the cornerstone that everything else in your personal life is built upon.
Why do you have to start personally before we can work corporately?
Because if personally we all have these different cornerstones, then collectively as we come together, Jesus will no way in any shape or form become the cornerstone.
Because we're all distracted in our own adventure.
We're all distracted in our own journey.
But as we begin to make Christ the core in our personal lives and now we gather together and we re-emphasize that or pull that even closer together, he builds something that will last beyond who we are.
Truth number two, God builds his church with living stones, not spectators.
God builds his church
With living stones, come on, living stones, that's important.
We're gonna talk about that in just a moment, not with spectators.
Now understand, I understand that just reading this statement, it seems a little interesting, but let me break it apart for you.
As I stated moments ago, Jesus is the cornerstone.
He is what we build upon.
He truly sustains everything.
But here's what I want you to grab.
God builds his church with living stones.
I stayed on the onset of the message.
Jesus is that living stone and therefore we are living stones.
We are vessels that he utilizes to build his church.
Now look at the mission that Jesus gave us, Matthew 28, 18.
Jesus came and told his disciples, I have been given all authority in heaven and on earth.
So Jesus has the authority, he has possession of the authority, but instantly in the next verse, he says, therefore,
Again, I tell you this all the time.
Anytime you're reading through scripture and you see the word, therefore, you've got to backtrack and see what it's there for.
Why is he getting ready to say what he's going to say?
Because he's already told us that he has all authority in his possession.
He holds everything in his hands.
He goes on to say, go and make disciples.
There's an inferred you, therefore you.
Not therefore the pastor.
not therefore the board, not therefore the staff, but therefore you.
Now, if we were to find that word you that is inferred here, that would lean toward and point toward who?
All of us.
Those of you that are watching online, it includes you.
Those of you that have a key leadership position here at Encounter Church, it includes you.
Those of you that serve on a serve team of some capacity once a month or twice a month or four times a month, that includes you.
Those of you that have just been coming in and found your spot that you'd love to sit in, the third row offset on the center, that's you.
But every one of us, therefore you go
and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit.
This is our great commission.
This is our calling.
We must never fall into the trap of thinking that our calling is just a show up on a Sunday morning.
We must never become guilty of thinking when I show up once a month on a Sunday morning, then I've fulfilled what God has for me.
Did you know he has so much more in store?
God's called us to a higher calling.
Go into all the world.
Well, Pastor, I don't know if I can go into all the world.
Well, could it start with where you are?
Acts 1, 8, you'll receive power and the Holy Spirit comes upon you to be my witnesses in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, to the uttermost parts of the earth.
Jerusalem for us would be our local community.
You'll receive power to be my witnesses.
Witnesses tells the accounts of what has happened.
Let me ask you today, has God done anything in your life?
Has he changed you at any capacity?
Then you have a story to tell.
Sometimes, if maybe you're like me, you grew up in a Christian home.
My mom was the children's director of the church.
Dad was the sound man, the bus captain, he was a trustee.
You know whatever needed done, that was my dad.
We would show up before anybody else and probably leave after everybody else.
So I grew up in a little church bubble and it's easy for me to look at that and go, I just don't have a testimony.
Some of you are like that.
Can I just say your testimony as God has kept you?
God's held onto you.
God sustained you.
Let God use that.
Some of you are like, I have a testimony.
You don't even want to know, Pastor.
Let God use that.
Be His light in the midst of the darkness.
Be His hope in the midst of despair.
Go into all the world.
sharing the good news of Christ.
That's our mission.
That's our calling.
Let's go back to our text from this morning.
First Peter chapter two, and now you are living stones being used to build a spiritual house.
Peter doesn't call them spectators.
He doesn't call them consumers.
He doesn't call us attendees.
He calls us living stones.
So two things I want to see.
Number one, we must be living.
The word here is zao in the original language.
It means to live, to breathe, to be among the living, not lifeless, not dead.
Everybody do this.
Come on, that's you.
You're living hallelujah.
Isn't it a good day when you're six feet above ground or they're not six feet underground?
However you want to look at that.
You're alive.
The breath in our lungs is because of him.
What he has placed inside of us is because of him.
He has called us to a higher calling to a greater purpose.
This word of za'o is the same word that is used in Romans 12, where Paul urges us to offer ourselves, our bodies, as a living sacrifice, as za'o sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God.
Now the second thing that I see is this.
He says, we are stones, we are living
Now, for this time period, stones had an incredible purpose.
The placement was vital.
Grab ahold of this.
A loose stone, a poorly placed stone, truly does not build anything solid.
Truth be told, a poorly placed stone, a loosely fit stone, does it enhance the build?
but oftentimes it just takes up space.
Come on, let that sink in.
In essence, becoming a potential roadblock, halting God's greater plan.
God never intended for His people merely to attend church.
Come on, I got some of you that are excited.
Some of you are like, pastor, why are you talking about where I'm living?
Well, quit living where I'm talking.
Let me move on.
He intended,
for us to be used to be built upon.
I love how the new living translation says it.
It says, and you are living stones that God is building.
He is building into his spiritual temple.
God is building you into something great.
Now the word stone here is not the word petros, little rock.
In this moment, we have a new description.
It's lithos.
The word lift those is a little bit different.
It means a stone that has been shaped and formed for construction.
In other words, we've got to make ourselves available for the proper placement for the calling of God.
So let's take a look at that.
Our actions that appear is serve the mission.
Serve the mission.
Truth number three, this enhances what I just said.
Strong structures require shaping the stones.
There's a lot of S's in that one.
Building something that lasts, something that is strong takes effort, willingness, sacrifice, it takes time.
Therefore, this is the truth that I don't want you to miss.
We don't like the process of being shaped or even formed.
Come on, am I right?
None of us like to be corrected.
Goin' anybody in the house is, man, you're like, I just love when somebody points out something I've done wrong.
Man, that's just the highlight of my day.
When my wife says I did that wrong, when my boss calls me out, when my coworker says I didn't do it right, I just love that.
No, there's not a single one of us.
What happens?
Oftentimes, when we're called out, we buck up a little bit.
We put up that shield a little bit.
We put up that guard a little bit and we're like, what are you talking about?
I'm doing this right.
You're doing this wrong.
Look what it says.
Isaiah 64.
We are the clay and you are the potter.
So we are the clay.
God is the potter.
We are all the work of your hand.
One translation says, you molded us.
Another says, you formed us by your hand.
I wonder, have you ever watched a potter go to work?
They begin to spin that wheel.
I love going to Silver Dollar City.
I love going to the pottery shop and just watching the potter.
I've done that for years as we've gone to Silver Dollar City and they push that little pedal and the wheel spins and they've got the clay in the middle and they've got a little pot of water over here and they're working that and they're putting water on it.
They're putting pressure in it.
They're forming it.
Everything's looking great.
But here's the part that gets me.
Sometimes they're almost done.
They've been working on this thing for a half hour, if not more.
It's looking incredible.
Those of us that are spectators on the sidelines are going, man, that is absolutely amazing how you were able to form that vase out of that lump of clay.
And then what do they do?
They notice that there's a weak spot or a compromise in the vase.
Rather than picking the whole thing up and discarding it, they crumble it up.
They put it back into a ball, they smack it down in the middle, and they start again.
I wonder, are you glad that God doesn't discard you when there's a compromise?
But he chooses to give us another opportunity and another chance.
Yet for a stone, that process is gonna require a bit more than just a spinning wheel and a bit of pressure or even a bit of water.
It's gonna require some chipping away or some
shaving away or even carving of the stone so it properly fits.
Are we willing to be shaped by God?
Now, before we answer that, I want you to understand that this is going to involve, yes, teaching, discipleship, correction, encouragement, stretching, sacrifice, time, growth.
The list goes on and on.
Some of these are gray, but others are a bit more uncomfortable.
But here's what I've come to know.
A stone right out of the quarry doesn't fit well into the build.
God pulls us out of the quarry of sin with the desire to shape us by His grace and His instruction.
We often want placement without preparation, but God always shapes before He sets us in place.
How many times are we like, God just place me here.
This is what I know I'm called to do.
This is what I need to do.
We want the placement.
We want to be put there.
If I can see that incredible quote on the screen there, there we go.
I don't know who said that, but it might have been me.
And we often want placement without preparation, but God always shapes us before he sets us in place.
Development is not optional.
It's essential.
If we're going to build something that lasts, we must do the work and offer ourselves to God.
If you haven't gone to GrowTrack yet, let me challenge you, get signed up.
But Pastor, I've been coming for five years.
Fantastic, get signed up.
Pastor, this is only week two.
GrowTrack is your on-road.
It's the on-ramp to all things encounter.
If you haven't plugged into a ministry yet, now is your time.
If you haven't stepped forward in leadership yet, God is calling you to a higher calling.
I believe that every one of us in the house and online today have a high calling of God that God is commissioning us, that God is shaping our desires to shape us for a high calling, for a placement that's perfect for us.
Some of us have discounted ourselves.
I've got nothing to offer.
Look at 1 Peter chapter 2 verse 9.
For you are a chosen people.
You are a royal priesthood, a holy nation.
God's very own possession.
As a result, you can show others the goodness of God.
If we called you out of darkness into the wonderful lights.
Look at this real quick.
You're chosen.
That means you belong.
You're royal.
That means you carry Christ
Access to God.
I'm sorry, you carry Christ's authority.
You're priest.
You have access to God.
You're holy.
You are set apart for a purpose.
I challenge you today to step into the calling, allow God to begin to shape you, mold you, and form you.
Some of you in the house, you've been resistant to this, but God is speaking directly to you today, our third action.
Shape toward God's calling.
And finally, number four, every stone, come on, every stone has a place in the purpose.
First Corinthians chapter 12, we read that the Bible says that a body has many parts, just as the church has many parts.
What would happen if a body was just one big eye and we were trying to function as one big eye?
There's a lot of things we would miss out on.
Sometimes we discount ourselves and we say, well, I don't have much value.
I'm a pretty small part of the body.
I'm just a pinky toe.
I'd venture to say if you don't have a pinky toe, your balance is a little more difficult.
Every part of the body is essential.
There's not a single person or a part of this church that God doesn't have a place of it for.
But it's gonna require our obedience.
It's interesting here that Paul is writing a letter to a group of believers in five different provinces.
Yet he says that they all belong to one spiritual church.
Right now across three locations, they're preaching the same message.
We could say three different provinces if we want.
We could say three different locations.
But we're part of a larger network
of churches.
We are one church functioning together because we belong to Christ.
But for us to build His church, we must understand that every stone functions together for a greater purpose.
We must support one another, strengthen one another.
No single stone alone can carry the load.
Some will serve in a public
fashion, some in a quiet fashion, some in a leadership moment, some are a little bit more support, but every stone matters for the greater calling to build to last for the kingdom of God.
First Peter chapter two.
Once you had no identity as people.
Now you are God's people.
Once you receive no mercy.
Now you have received God's mercy.
One translation lays it out this way.
Once you were nobody.
Now you were God's people.
Maybe that's how you feel today.
You have felt like a nobody I want you to know as I've stated before.
God sees you.
He's calling you out of the quarry.
He's calling you to a place that being molded and shaped
and worked so you can build his church.
See what we're looking at in this series.
It's not about do I go to church.
It's am I allowing God to use me to build his church?
Am I allowing God to shape me, to mold me, to form me?
Am I allowing God to do the hard in my life?
so that I can be placed where he wants me to be placed.
Our final actions support the body of leaders.
Listen, Church.
If we don't build in here, it doesn't matter what we build out there.
Come on.
If you have found yourself being a spectator,
I just challenge you.
God's called you to celebrate.
It's time to find your placements in His church.
Let's pray.
God, we thank you right now for who you are.
Lord, I pray that you will speak across this room, challenge our hearts, lead us and guide us.
Today, Lord, help us.
Lord, help us to make ourselves available for your purpose
in this place